# Release Disclosure
The internals of this application feature a design pattern released in 2018, ActionStrategy. This resulting framework and the creation of a Unified Turing Machine is the consequence of the complexity that this pattern imposes, despite its outward simplicity. Thus this framework simplifies the handling of its complex nature and solves the deficiencies of working with this pattern in preexisting frameworks capable of it. Noting that the Unified Turing Machine itself was an indirect discovery in order to handle such complexity.

This release has no license attached to provide a grace period to protect any potential patents that would result from the release of this repository. And should be considered to be a research release and work in progress. As it is the intention to fully open source this framework, host on npm, and translate into each programming language that might support it in the near future.

To some this might be the holy grail of training sound logic and reasoning into Neural Networks that is comparable to ourselves. For me, this is a framework that I have wanted to release as my self studied dissertation that has been on hold for 5 years. The Unified Turing Machine is my thesis, that it works the test, the documents shared alongside this repository the paper. Hope everyone enjoyed the Ai summer of 2023. This work is meant to enhance such, not take away in something that could be greater than the sums of its parts.

Be responsible, safe, and have fun!