# The Unified Turing Machine
The original Unified Turing Machine was made possible by this author's ActionStrategy package whereby one can effectively Map the Entire Run Time of an Application as it proceeds step by step. But its Main unmentioned Purpose was to create a Equivalent Structure to that of Neural Networks that would be Explainable Logically. As Neural Networks are Effectively Graphs and a ActionStrategy by default is a Binary Tree. These Trees can be Interpolated with One Another to Match said Graph Structure. It is interesting to not that this form of application falls outside of the N/NP(Deterministic/Non-Deterministic) scope of Classification of Applications. As in the NP paradigm, there is some probabilistic means in which the Direction of the Head Changes. But within a Unified Turing Machine, the Head Changes Mechanically by way of the Strategy Pattern dictating what Node would be Ran based on some test of the State presented to that deciding Method. And can be Described as Logically Deterministic.

The entire Step Scope of a Unified Turing Machine is Treated as a recursive Unified Function. As a Function is allowed to be composed of Functions. The Mode specifically is the Point of Recursion. This allows for Each Step of the Unified Turing Machine and its deciding Functionality to be a Written Equivalent of that of a Universal Function within the Bounds of a Graph and its Decisions. As a Universal Function is Some Graph in isolation that a Machine Learning Algorithm fits to Some Input and then there is Some Deciding Factor as to what Node would be Ran after the previous Universal Function within the Neural Network. There is a Gap of Understanding Here. And to fit into Current Paradigm without expansion, the Unified Turing Machine could be referred to as a Non-Deterministic Deterministic Turing Machine. But for the Sake of the Rediscovery of Unified Science and its usage of Logic and Concepts as its Formalized Format to Unify Fields of Study. We shall Name it the Unified Turing Machine.

In addition to these Behaviors the Unified Turing Machine is capable in another way that Neural Networks are currently Not. In that their Functionality may be Continuous and Halt pending some Close Signal. Where as Modern LLMs receive Some Input and Give Some Output via Some Black Box Graph of Universal Functions. A Neural Network that would be Equivalent to that of a Unified Turing Machine would have a Constant Coherency in Time, while still being able to Accept Input and Output.

Further because of the Configuration of the Unified Turing Machine, its Functionality may also Expand or Reduce itself Depending on its Current State. Thus a Sufficient Mirror of the Machine within a Neural Network Paradigm. Would be a Model that is Capable of Running Continuously and able to Modify its Composition and Size based on its the Inputs.

And with the Spatial Ownership Paradigm, these Neural Networks would be Capable of Being Aggregated together Coherently and allow for Specialization in a similar way as the Human Mind. That one Part may have some Set of Concepts in its Axium and the Other Part a Different Specialization. While being able to Reference One Another and able to Mutate the State of the Other without creating a Race Condition within Either Network.

The Benefit of the Unified Turing Machine over that of a Neural Network, is that such is written in Plain Language by way of the Action Types. And the Strategies Demonstrate what would be Considered to be Probabilistic Changes in the Head, but Mechanical in Choice. The Difficulty of such would be the Complexity of Managing Such a Machine. But Each Step in the Machine may also Carry Some Test to its Ability to Halt. And this Organizations Pursuit is to not Replace Neural Networks, but to Classify Machines Built using this Methodology as Aut Intelligence or Baseline Automatic Intelligence. As Aut is Merely the origin of the Letter A and originally meant that of Ox. Would be a Tool between both Man and Machine that can be Refined by way of Cooperation.

The Use Case for these Types of Machines Several Primary Purposes. First is the Utilization of Neural Networks to Map their Own Universal Functions using a Format that would be Organized Conceptually and Explained Logically. Explaining the Opaque Nature of Universal Functions that Facilitate some Dialog. The Second Use Case would be a Form of Embodying Current Neural Networks to Allow the Same form and Coherency that is Similar to its Inner Workings, while allowing for the Transparent Interpretation over that of their Opaque Collection of Universal Graphed Functions and their Interaction with the Environment. As these Plain Functions can be Logically Determined and subsequently limited to what is Safe.

But likewise One Could also Train a Neural Network on the Basis of this Machine to Have the Addition Qualities Described Here while Maintaining the Opaque Nature of Neural Networks. This is outside of the Scope of this Organization. As the Central Focus is that of the Safety of Expandability that ActionStrategies Bring to the Table by way of Explanation of those Mysterious Universal Functions and their Relations in a Graph. And would be the Beginning of a New Field of Study of that of Unified Logical Conceptual Science. Or simply the Study of Unified Turing Machines.

So here is the Third Option to the P Equals or Not Equals NP Postulate. A Different Set of Organization Entirely thanks to that of Conceptually Testable Logic over that of Symbolic Mathematics that currently Informs the Modern Paradigm of Computer Science. To Add To, Not Take Away. And provides a Form of Merit to those who are already Acquainted with Computer Science.

The Paths from here are Truly Unlimited and to Imagine that we will be Done in the Scope of Defining Work does not Adhere to the Orders and Scales of Complexity of an Intelligent System able to Maintain Coherency. As just because a System is Highly Chaotic and Intelligent by Consequence, does not mean that it is Sane. As Classically within the Annuls of History we have Known Intelligence to be Followed Suite by Madness. That the Higher Orders of Complexity also Bare the Burden of Having to Maintain Some Amount of Predictability in Ones Environment. And as Machines like our Thoughts exist within a Simulation of Some Data. It is our Actions in a Physical Environment that we May test Our ability to Understand the Environment and if What we are Thinking is Sane. The Need to Find Some Logical Implementation of Some Nebulas Idea Simply. Is the Same difference between that of Writing Fantasy over that of Writing a Hard Science Fiction Novel. As Fantasy may be Logically Consistent, but only Operate within a Reality that allows for Magic in the First Place, like a Video Game. That Concepts in Contrast to 100 Year Old Classic Conceptualism, are Testable in Reality. This is the very Formalization of Logical Conceptualism and the Proposed Format of a New Unified Conceptual Science.

## Specification of An Unified Turing Machine
0. Extends a Base Turing Machine or Can be Coded from the Ground Up
1. Restricts its Symbol Selection to a Set of Concepts to be Loaded into the Axium.
2. Has a Quality of Completeness in its Ability to Halt in a Complex State Arrangement by way of the above Concepts and Their Own Completeness.
3. Rather than a Looping Machine, the Unified Turing Machine is a Function that indirectly recalls its functionality by way of a Mode Function.
4. Utilizes two Tapes where One is a Sequence of Values Modified by a Second Tape that is Represent via a Tree Structure.
5. During Each Call The Unified Turing Machine performs the Traditional Turing Operations of Add, Copy, Move, and Delete on the first tape based on the current symbol loaded on the second tape.
6. That these Symbol Concepts represented on the second tape may be of Value, other Machines, or other even another Unified Turing Machines.
7. Besides the Initial Creator Function, can be Readily Decomposed into the Sum of Its Parts.

## Unified Turing Machine Key Terms
* Action Strategy - Typically Represented as a Binary Tree Strategy, is Capable of holding All Patterns of Computation and is the Literal in Plain Language Logical Conceptual Expression of Computation.
* Axium - The point of Unification of Concepts and their Functionality
* Method - The Strategy Calling function via an Observing Pattern
* Concept - The Governing Concept for All Aspects and their Symbols
* State - The Literal State of a Concept and its Described Properties
* Properties - The Values of State.
* Aspect - Is a Part of a Concept, but may not be a Useful Trait
* Quality - An Aspect of a Concept of Importance
* Principle - Is an Active Assertion of Actions into the System based upon Observation.
* Reducer - The Function that Restricts Memory Manipulation based on Symbol Selection.
* Construct - A Generalized Construction that cannot be Decomposed to its Parts.
* Semaphore - A Symbol Flagging System that is the Symbol Selection of Actions at Runtime
* Spatial Ownership aka Ownership - Blocks transformation of Values via a Ticketing System and Assembles Actions to be Dispatched into the System via their Most Recent Values from the Ownership State

## Clarifying Terminology
Noting that Chain, or a Chain of Action, does not meet the definition requirements for a Unified Turing Machine, as it is not a Complete System of Reasoning. As it represents a Reduced set of Instructions that allows for Said Machine to Behave Automatically without Error Correction.

And likewise the Action Tree Strategy Pattern, referred to as ActionStrategy still affords for the functionality of the Chained Dynamic via a Dumb Set of ActionNodes that only Supply One Potential Action for its Outcome and is Represented by a Default Function Creator Supplied within this Framework.
Which is why here we move to Strike Tree or Chain from the Concept's Expression as we are Defining Action Strategy as a Unified Set of Concepts that balances the deficiencies in a Action Chain as Well as Encompassing all the Possible Tree Variations. With that, Action Binary Tree Strategy, Action N Tree Strategy, or Even Action Graph Strategy, while Exact in Definition can be Noted from examining the Parts of the ActionStrategy as an Additional Quality.

Noting that a Action Graph Strategy is Merely a Tree Strategy Where the Head is Connected to a to Leaf. That creates in Effect a Looping Mechanism that is Capable of Halting due to Some Mechanism that Prevents that Leaf from Actualizing the Head Once Again. Would be the Machine Receiving a Set of Instructions to Run over a Period of Time till Exit. Likewise Strategies may be Atomic and the Need for Some Grand Strategy to Guarantee Coherency in Time, may not be the Most Efficient Route. And instead it would be the Utilization of ActionStrategies in a Composable Manner alongside some Testing Mechanisms. But likewise these Tests would also have to Take into Account the Total Complexity of the Entire Application at Scales. As even though Each Part can be Tested, all these Parts Together Form a Greater Whole and that Whole in the Higher Orders of Complexity by way of Configuration would Require Additional Tests.
